(AIDEN SPEAKS)
- JODIE: Look, I'm totally exhausted
and thirsty.
And I have no clue where we fucking are
so just play nice and give me a break, okay?
Everything's gonna be okay.
I'm in the middle of nowhere.
I'm dying of thirst.
And everything's fucked.
But it's gonna be okay.
(AIDEN SPEAKS)
Leave me alone, Aiden!
WHAT?
(HORSE SOUND)
(AIDEN SPEAKS)
It's okay, Aiden.
There's no reason to be nervous.
(APPROACHING FOOTSTEPS)
(DOOR OPENS)
Hi. I'm so sorry to disturb you.
I'm just looking for some place
to spend the night and I was hoping...
- MAN: You can't stay here. Sorry.
- JODIE: Can I just...
Can I just spend the night in your barn?
Please, I mean, I promise,
I will be gone by morning.
- MAN: I told you, you can't stay here.
You need to leave now.
(SPEAKING IN NAVAJO)
- MAN 2: It's okay.
You can stay here tonight.
Come in.
What's your name?
- JODIE: Jodie.
- PAUL: I'm Paul.
These are my sons, Cory and Jay.
My mother, Shimasani.
Don't be surprised if she doesn't answer you.
She hasn't spoken in years.
We're about to have dinner.
Would you like to eat with us?
- JODIE: (CHUCKLES)
Yeah...
Yeah, thank you!
- PAUL: We don't see many
hitchhikers around here.
Can I ask where you're heading?
- JODIE: I just... keep moving
from day to day.
I guess if I keep going
long enough I'll...
...figure out where I'm headed.
- PAUL: I see.
- JODIE: You guys are...
...Navajo, right?
- JAY: We're Dineh.
- PAUL: That means "the people" in Navajo.
It's what we call ourselves.
- JODIE: You guys are really
far from everything here.
- PAUL: Hmm.
My family has lived here for generations.
I was born here.
I'll probably die here.
I tell my boys to go...
I know there's nothing for them here.
But uh...
They want to stay
with their grandmother and me, so...
(CHUCKLES)
- JODIE: Do you breed horses?
- CORY: Yeah. Mustangs.
We also have a bunch of churros.
- JODIE: "Churros?"
- PAUL: Sheep.
- JODIE: Oh.
- PAUL: We sell their wool, and milk.
It's not much, but it... keeps us alive.
(HORSE NEIGHS)
(DOG BARKS)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
It's late.
Jay will... uh...
show you to your room.
Good night.
- JAY: Are you coming?
Just stay in your room.
No matter what you hear.
- JODIE: What I hear?
What do you mean?
- JAY: You value your life?
Lock your door and don't come out
until the morning.
- JODIE: Ashes?
What's got them so scared?
(SWITCH CLICKS)
(AIDEN SPEAKS)
I know.
It's a very strange place.
Don't worry.
Tomorrow will be a long way from here.
Good night, Aiden.
(AIDEN REPLIES)
(DOG BARKING)
- JAY: Just stay in your room.
No matter what you hear.
- JODIE: (SCREAMS)
(DOG WHIMPERS)
Shit!
(OMNIOUS NOISES)
- PAUL: You look exhausted.
I told the boys let you sleep.
- JODIE: Thanks. I-I really needed it.
- PAUL: Need some coffee?
(SLURPING NOISES)
- JODIE: I'm gonna hit the road.
Thank you!
- PAUL: There's a lot of work
to be done on the farm.
Maybe you'd like to stay on for a few days.
Lend a helping hand?
Couldn't pay anything, but uh...
You have a roof.
Food on the table.
What do you think?
- JODIE: Yeah.
Yeah, why not?
- PAUL: Hm. Good.
You'll find some work clothes in Cory's room.
See ya outside.
Ready for work?
- JODIE: I'm ready when you are.
- PAUL: The sheeps need water.
Think you can handle that?
- JODIE: Sure.
- CORY: So, you're gonna stay with us?
- JODIE: It looks that way.
- CORY: Great!
I mean... it's good to have some help.
- PAUL: Thanks, Jodie.
Can you get some hay from the barn?
- JODIE: Holy shit! An antique!
It's gotta be 40 or 50 years old!
(ENGINE STARTS)
(ENGINE STOPS)
Good job!
Take it easy, Aiden!
Just one bale,
not the whole goddamn haystack!
(OMINOUS NOISES)
- CORY: Hey Jodie! Lunch?
- JODIE: Okay, let me just finish this first.
- PAUL: Put it down anywhere.
Thanks, Jodie.
It's lunch time.
Go and join the boys if you're hungry.
- JODIE: You coming?
- PAUL: Later. I still have work to do.
- JODIE: Okay, later then.
- CORY: Have a seat.
- JODIE: Thanks.
Is it... true that your grandmother
hasn't spoken in...
...in years?
- CORY: Yeah.
My father said she hasn't said a word
since my great grandmother died.
That's gotta be... 30 years.
- JODIE: Are there other Navajo ranches around here?
- CORY: There used to be about 50 some years back.
But now it's just us.
The others got scared off...
- JAY: The others decided to go live in the city.
Not everyone wants to live in the desert.
- JODIE: What was those noises last night?
Sounded like something was...
...banging on the house.
- JAY: That's just the wind.
It makes strange sound in the desert.
- JODIE: I saw the dead sheep.
What happened to them?
- JAY: The storm.
They wander out of the pen
and choke to death on the sand.
Do you always ask so many questions?
- JODIE: When I don't understand something, yeah.
- JAY: Yeah? How about if I started asking you questions?
Where'd you come from?
What're you doing here?
You probably wouldn't like it, huh?
So keep your secrets to yourself.
And don't ask anymore questions.
You'll excuse me.
I got work to do.
- CORY: Ehh... Don't mind him, Jodie.
He's okay when you get to know him.
- JODIE: I'll bet.
- CORY: Well...
I guess I better get back to it,
or Paw will get mad.
See you later.
- JODIE: Well done, Jodie.
Hi.
My name's Jodie and I'm...
I'm gonna stay here a little bit and help out.
I hope that you don't mind.
This is beautiful.
Did you make this yourself?
Let's see what Jay's doing.
- JAY: Proud and stubborn.
Never wants to go in with the others.
- JODIE: Do you mind if I try?
- JAY: You work with horses before?
- JODIE: No. (CHUCKLES)
- JAY: Go right ahead.
His name's Ashkii.
- JODIE: Hey there, Ashkii.
Don't be afraid.
I'm just gonna come over there, okay?
(ASHKII SNORES)
See, Ashkii?
That's not so bad, is it?
Admit it.
You kinda like me, huh? (CHUCKLES)
Hey Aiden.
Ever dream of riding a horse?
Take him to the enclosure.
- JAY: How'd you do that?
- JODIE: We all have our secrets, right?
- JAY: Maybe I misjudged you.
- PAUL: If you want to take a shower,
it's behind the barn.
Lady first.
- JODIE: It's fine by me.
(OMINOUS NOISE)
(OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYING)
- CORY: And then the guy left running...
And you know what, he was never seen again.
(LAUGHTER)
(OMINOUS NOISES)
- PAUL: It's... time to go to bed.
- JODIE: What's happening here?
Why do we have to lock up the house?
- PAUL: Just go to your room, Jodie.
And don't come out,
no matter what happens.
You remember the sheep last night?
I don't want anything to happen to you.
(STRONG WIND BLOWING)
(GROWLING SOUND)
(MONSTER SCREECHING)
- JODIE: Holy fuck!
AIDEN!!
AIDEN, HELP ME!!
(PANTING)
- PAUL: Jodie!
Jodie, I told you to stay in your room!
You could've been killed!
- JODIE: What's happening here?
What was that thing?
- PAUL: You should've listened to me.
Stay in your room.
- JODIE: You have to tell me the truth.
You have to tell me the truth now!
- PAUL: It's Yé'iitsoh.
He wants blood.
That's all he's interested in.
We can't do anything about it.
We can't fight a spirit.
- JODIE: Spirits don't live in this world.
If he's here, there's reason.
You remember, Ashkii?
We're friend, right?
I'm just gonna put my foot in the steering
and climb up, okay?
I need to figure out
how to go forward, right?
Hey, what do you think, Ashkii?
We're doing pretty good, huh?
- JAY: That horse's gonna have to tell me your secret.
Listen, I'm headed over the pasture
to tend the churros.
You wanna come?
- JODIE: Sure.
- JAY: Let's go then.
Yah!
- JODIE: Look, I know
you don't wanna talk about it.
But I really need to know
what happened last night.
Does this spirit come every night?
- JAY: It'll come for many nights
and then it won't show up for months.
But it always ends up coming back.
- JODIE: And the ghosts that surround the house.
Do you know who they are?
- JAY: My father says five spirit guardians
have always protected our tribe.
They come at night
to prevent Yé'iitsoh from killing us.
I don't know if it's true.
But...
Yé'iitsoh's never managed to get into our house.
My turn to ask you some questions.
What are you really doing out here
in the middle of the desert?
It feels like you're running away from something.
- JODIE: I'm just...
trying to figure out who I really am.
I've come to this point in my life where...
I have to come to terms with myself.
That's all.
- JAY: You're like us.
You also have your dark secret, don't you, Jodie?
- JODIE: No.
No, I have no secrets.
(STATIC)
- PAUL: (VIA RADIO) Jay.
Jay, (SPEAKS IN NAVAJO).
- JAY: (SPEAKS IN NAVAJO)
(SPEAKS IN NAVAJO)
(IN ENGLISH) That was Paw.
There's no water at the ranch
something must be up with the well.
I'm gonna have a look on my way back.
- JODIE: I can go take a look if you want.
- JAY: Uh... (CHUCKLES)
Don't know if you'd be able to do much.
- JODIE: I'll do what I can.
Where's the well?
- JAY: It's over there. It's got a windmill.
Shouldn't be hard to find.
- JODIE: Okay.
I'll see you back at the ranch.
- JAY: Okay. See you later.
- JODIE: Good work, Aiden!
The pump's running again.
(WOOD CREAKING)
(RINGING SOUND)
(OMINOUS NOISES)
(GASPS)
(SCRATCHING ON DIRT SOUND)
(RUNNING HORSE APPROACHING)
Fork crown?
Why am I being brought here?
- MAN 1: (SCREAMING)
- MAN 2: Come on! Show yerself, varmint!
- JODIE: An entity...
Massacred the soldiers in the fort.
Could it be Yé'iitsoh?
The forked tree.
I have to find it.
The Devil's Fork.
The place I saw in my visions.
The ghosts...
...were wearing these ritual masks.
They were killed by...
...the entity.
Thanks, Aiden.
Weird.
This one has no talisman.
- MAN: (SPEAKS IN NAVAJO)
- JODIE: The fifth talisman.
He put it around a baby's neck.
Help me Aiden.
I've gotta see what happened.
It all went by too fast.
I didn't understand it.
It's just... all mixed up.
It's as if something's missing.
I'll show the talismans to Paul.
Maybe he'll know something.
(RUMBLING SOUND)
- CORY: PAUL!!!
PAUL!!!
- JODIE: What happened?
- CORY: Yé'iitsoh! It came here in broad daylight.
We tried to get to the house but Paw...
- JAY: Cory, get the car!
- CORY: Come on, come on!
Start! Start already, goddammit!
- CORY: (SHOUTS) IT WON'T START, JAY!
IT WON'T START!!!
- JODIE: The entity's coming back!
- JAY: We gotta get into the house.
- JODIE: I don't think that's gonna help.
- JAY: There's nothing else we can do.
My father told you,
you can't fight a spirit!
- JODIE: Oh... This blanket...
It's that one that was on the baby.
- SHIMASANI: My mother gave it to me.
Like her mother before.
She also gave me this.
- JODIE: It's the fifth talisman.
This is where it all began.
I need to watch carefully.
Remember every detail.
(CHANTING)
(MONSTER SCREECHING)
Your ancestors...
They summoned Yé'iitsoh here.
- SHIMASANI: They were lost.
Full of hatred for the White Man.
They bring spirit to kill their enemies...
And gain revenge...
But he turned against them.
He was still hungry.
Hungry for blood.
Yé'iitsoh is back.
He's come to take our lives.
- JODIE: Your ancestors... they're the guardians
who protect the house, right?
- SHIMASANI: They know they were wrong.
So they returned to protect us from the evil that they released.
- JODIE: If they brought the entity here, I mean,
there's gotta be some way to send it back to its own world.
- SHIMASANI: They used the ritual
to open the passage.
I still remember the incantation
but the ritual is lost in the past.
- JODIE: I saw it.
I saw the ritual in my vision.
I'll prepare it and you can help me
with the incantation.
- SHIMASANI: Hurry!
He's coming!
- JODIE: I'm sorry, Paul.
It's all my fault.
I stirred up old memories.
I never should've come here.
I never bring anything good with me.
Aiden has done all he can.
The rest is up to you, Paul.
A fire.
I have to make a fire in front of the house.
Something to lit the fire.
- JAY: Jodie, what the hell?
- JODIE: Trust me!
I know what I'm doing!
- JAY: We gotta get inside.
The storm's coming!
- SHIMASANI: Leave her be, Jay!
- CORY: Shimasani? You... You can talk?
- SHIMASANI: A stick, Jodie!
You must find a stick to draw the signs!
- JODIE: Now the talismans.
I have to remember where
each of the Medicine Men stood.
There.
That's exactly right!
Okay!
Now each of you need to stand
next to a talisman.
There must be a soul attached to each one.
There's only four of us!
Five talismans!
We need the fifth soul to complete the ritual!
- JAY: This is crazy, Jodie! We're all gonna die
if we don't go inside right now!
- JODIE: Fuck!
Fuck! We need one more soul!
That's it!
We've got the five souls.
Shimasani, start the incantation now!
- SHIMASANI: (CHANTING)
The passage is open, Jodie!
You did it! You did it!
- JAY: Jodie!
- CORY: SHIMASANI!!!!
- JAY: No white man has ever been
to the place I'm taking you.
My people have buried our dead there
for many hundreds of years.
For us, it's sacred land.
- JODIE: These are the bones of your ancestors.
I'm sure they would've wanted
to be buried along side with their own people.
(UNEASY MUSIC PLAYING)
- PAUL: So it's decided?
You're leaving?
- JODIE: There's things I have to do.
You know, I...
I used to think that my gift was a curse.
Maybe I was wrong.
Maybe I can use it to help people.
Find out who I really am.
- PAUL: You did a lot for us, Jodie.
For us and the memory of our people.
I don't know how to thank you.
(INHALES DEEPLY)
If you don't find what're  looking for...
come back here.
You have a home.
- CORY: I'm gonna miss you.
- JODIE: Me too, Cory.
I'll never forget you.
- JAY: Ashkii's gonna be very sad without you.
- JODIE: But one day I'll come back and see him.
- CORY: Hey Jodie!
You didn't think that you're just gonna walk, did you?
- PAUL: You've spent a long time fixing that bike.
Take it. It's yours.
It's the least we can do to thank you.
- JODIE: Thanks!
(ENGINE STARTS)